CASMINST-4608 / CASMINST-4838 / CASMHMS-5598 / CASMHMS-5556 for v1.2 (#2149)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/security_and_authentication/Change_Credentials_on_ServerTech_PDUs.md

- This procedure does not update the default credentials that RTS uses for new ServerTech PDUs added to a system. To change the default credentials, see
  [Update default ServerTech PDU Credentials used by the Redfish Translation Service](Update_Default_ServerTech_PDU_Credentials_used_by_the_Redfish_Translation_Service.md).
- ServerTech PDUs running firmware version `8.0q` or greater must have the password of the `admn` user changed before the JAWS REST API will function as expected.

> - The default user/password for ServerTech PDUs is `admn`/`admn`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The default username and password for ServerTech PDUs is `admn` and `admn`.
```

## Prerequisites

- The Cray command line interface (CLI) is initialized and configured on the system. See [Configure the Cray CLI](../configure_cray_cli.md).
- The PDU is accessible over the network. A PDU can be reachable by its component name (xname) hostname, but may not yet be discovered by HSM.
- PDUs are manufactured by ServerTech.

    This can be verified by the following command

    ```bash
    ncn-mw# PDU=x3000m0

>     ncn-mw# curl -k -s --compressed  https://$PDU -i | grep Server:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ncn-mw# curl -k -s --compressed  https://${PDU} -i | grep Server:
```

    Server: ServerTech-AWS/v8.0v
    ```

>     *NOTE*: The firmware version is listed after the '/'. In this case, the firmware version is `8.0v`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **`NOTE`**: The firmware version is listed after the '/'. In this case, the firmware version is `8.0v`.
```

    x3000m0
    ```

>     If some or all of the PDUs have NOT been discovered by HSM, you must obtain the component name (xname) for each of the ServerTech PDUs on the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If some or all of the PDUs are not discovered by HSM, you must obtain the component name (`xname`) for each of the ServerTech PDUs on the system.
```

    x3000m0
    ```

>     If some or all of the PDUs are not discovered by HSM, you must obtain the component name (`xname`) for each of the ServerTech PDUs on the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If any of the PDUs are not discovered by HSM, then the component name (`xname`) for each of the ServerTech PDUs on the system must be obtained.
```

            ```bash

>             ncn-mw# curl -i -k -u "admn:$OLD_PDU_PASSWORD" -X PATCH https://$PDU/jaws/config/users/local/admn \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            ncn-mw# curl -i -k -u "admn:${OLD_PDU_PASSWORD}" -X PATCH https://${PDU}/jaws/config/users/local/admn \
```

>                  -d $(jq --arg PASSWORD "$NEW_PDU_PASSWORD" -nc '{password: $PASSWORD}')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                 -d $(jq --arg PASSWORD "${NEW_PDU_PASSWORD}" -nc '{password: $PASSWORD}')
```

            Pragma: JAWS v1.01
            ```

        1. (`ncn-mw#`) Update the PDU credentials stored in Vault.

            ```bash
            vault kv get secret/pdu-creds/$PDU |
                    jq --arg PASSWORD "$NEW_PDU_PASSWORD" '.data | .Password=$PASSWORD' |
                    vault kv put secret/pdu-creds/$PDU -
            ```

    - Update all ServerTech PDUs in the system to the same password.

>         **NOTE**: To change the password on all PDUs, that PDUs must be successfully discovered by HSM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        **`NOTE`**: To change the password on all PDUs, PDUs must be successfully discovered by HSM.
```

    - Update all ServerTech PDUs in the system to the same password.

>         **`NOTE`**: To change the password on all PDUs, PDUs must be successfully discovered by HSM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        **`NOTE`**: In order to change the password on all PDUs, the PDUs must be successfully discovered by HSM.
```

        1. Change password for the `admn` user on the ServerTech PDUs currently discovered in the system.

            ```bash
            ncn-mw# for PDU in $(cray hsm inventory redfishEndpoints list --type CabinetPDUController --format json |
            jq -r '.RedfishEndpoints[] | select(.FQDN | contains("rts")).ID'); do

>                 echo "Updating password on $PDU"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                echo "Updating password on ${PDU}"
```

>                 curl -i -k -u "admn:$OLD_PDU_PASSWORD" -X PATCH https://$PDU/jaws/config/users/local/admn \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                curl -i -k -u "admn:${OLD_PDU_PASSWORD}" -X PATCH https://${PDU}/jaws/config/users/local/admn \
```

>                     -d $(jq --arg PASSWORD "$NEW_PDU_PASSWORD" -nc '{password: $PASSWORD}')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    -d $(jq --arg PASSWORD "${NEW_PDU_PASSWORD}" -nc '{password: $PASSWORD}')
```

            Pragma: JAWS v1.01
            ```

        1. (`ncn-mw#`) Update Vault for all ServerTech PDUs in the system to the same password:

            ```bash
            for PDU in $(cray hsm inventory redfishEndpoints list --type CabinetPDUController --format json |
              jq -r '.RedfishEndpoints[] | select(.FQDN | contains("rts")).ID'); do
                echo "Updating password on $PDU"
                vault kv get secret/pdu-creds/$PDU |
                    jq --arg PASSWORD "$NEW_PDU_PASSWORD" '.data | .Password=$PASSWORD' |
                    vault kv put secret/pdu-creds/$PDU -
            done
            ```

>             **NOTE**: After five minutes, the previous credential should stop working as the existing sessions time out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            **`NOTE`**: After five minutes, the previous credential should stop working as the existing sessions time out.
```

            ```bash
            ncn-mw# for PDU in $(cray hsm inventory redfishEndpoints list --type CabinetPDUController --format json |
              jq -r '.RedfishEndpoints[] | select(.FQDN | contains("rts")).ID'); do

>                 echo "Updating password on $PDU"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                echo "Updating password on ${PDU}"
```

>                 vault kv get secret/pdu-creds/$PDU |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                vault kv get secret/pdu-creds/${PDU} |
```

>                     jq --arg PASSWORD "$NEW_PDU_PASSWORD" '.data | .Password=$PASSWORD' |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    jq --arg PASSWORD "${NEW_PDU_PASSWORD}" '.data | .Password=$PASSWORD' |
```

>                     vault kv put secret/pdu-creds/$PDU -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    vault kv put secret/pdu-creds/${PDU} -
```

            done
            ```

>             **`NOTE`**: After five minutes, the previous credential should stop working as the existing sessions time out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            **NOTE**: After five minutes, the previous credential should stop working as the existing sessions time out.
```
